What
other places were there at Northgate or anywhere
else for Aggies to go and have a pretty good time? We
used to go to Lakeview Club. Describe that. That's
out northeast of town. Northeast of town, and it's
just a hole in the wall. You'd have that live band,
and you could dance, and there was always dancing
going on. I mean, you could dance. There was quite a
few little places like that, but we'd go out there.
We could have our beer out there, but It wasn't to
excess. I mean we'd bring back a few guys that liked
to drink a lot, but most of us would have our two or
three beers. I mean we couldn't afford a lot of
beer. What time would you go from when to when? We'd
get out there about 9 o'clock and come back about
12, 30 or 1. And you would wear what? Blue jeans and a
shirt. I mean that was the, we didn't much change
our dress. Were there any well-known performers
that you? You know what, we went out there one time
and saw ZZ Top. They had a rock and roll weekend or
something, and ZZ Top came up. And they always had
one or two country westerns, or every weekend was
mostly country western, but I always wanted to go
to the rock concerts. You never could find any
around College Station. Brian, he had to go to
Houston or Austin or somewhere. Did you all do that
much? Yeah. I had friends in Austin, so if I wanted a
date I'd go over there and grab a ride with a guy from
Austin, and we'd go over there and have a good time
in Austin, and go to Dallas. We used to go to the
Houston Astros baseball games with Butch
Gootsman every week. And he was the loudest, most
obnoxious fan that place had. several years. How
did, did he get y'all tickets? Yeah, he got us
tickets. He coached to get us tickets. I mean we
could pretty much go see the Astros any time we
wanted to and not have to pay. So that was a fun trip.
Mr. Rutter dies in the spring of 1970, your
freshman year. All right. Then the next fall Jack
Williams comes in. Did that make any impression on
you all at all? Were you aware of that? We did. We
weren't sure how
he was going to take the place of Mr. Rutter. I think
he did a good job. I mean, I think he took the legacy
that Earl Rudder left and carried it through to
fruition. I mean, he made it work. You are so
correct. He made, you know, and there was a lot of We
were in the protest era, okay? Right there was all,
you know, Vietnam War, everybody's protesting.
And, you know, there was a few people a few times,
you know, us two percenters. We were the liberals,
okay? Architecture students were the only
liberals that campus knew. All of us had longer
hair. I mean, we had, they considered us hippies
and all this kind of stuff. But, yeah, we, you know,
there was a few times that we walked down, marched
down to that Williams president, the president's
house, and had our signs and that kind of stuff. I
mean it wasn't a big deal. It may have been 30 or 40
people as a whole, but it was just to be part of the
culture at the time. And it was never to degrade the
university. And we never got any press. So it
wasn't like we were doing anything that anybody
wanted to know about. But that was about the extent
of the protest on that campus was the few a few
times, but I think that's what he did. Yeah. I have a
speech I give fairly often that I call Camelot on
the Brasses, using the Kennedy idea of Camelot at a
special time, and my major point is only Earl
Rudder could have done what he did. only Jack
Williams could have done what he did. If they had
been reversed chronologically, they both would
have failed. Rudder did what needed to be done,
Williams built on it, and thank goodness for the
effect of both. Yeah, we, you know, when I got
there, the non-rugs were still kind of outcasts. I
mean, we were still considered not Aggies, we were
still considered, I mean, The old army just did not
like us. They didn't, you know, they thought we
were basically, and it literally did. It
separated the school. It put one end of the student
body on one end of campus and one end, you know, the
rest of them on the other. I think the greatest
thing they did was put all the women down by the
corps guys because all of a sudden all the non-regs
wanted to go down to the corps dorms. I mean, the
female dorms, the co-ed dorms. So I think they did
it as well as any, and it could have been done, and I
think, I think it's basically also because we're
Texans that it really – when all else fails, you're
still a Texan. So you're going to make it work one
way or another, and I think that's why it works, and
I think it's still why it works. Let me give you –
back to – you're a sophomore, and you're now on the
varsity baseball team. Describe the difference
in being a varsity baseballer and a freshman
baseballer. Well, my sophomore year, they
eliminated the freshman team. So now we have
freshmen on the varsity, which everybody that
made it through that freshman year hate. There's
only about four of us left, four or five. The rest of
them, a lot of kids just did not come back. They
didn't want to tag. They transferred. So there's
about five sophomores that moved on, which is
about average. And there's about nine or ten
freshmen now. They didn't have as many freshmen
because they didn't have a freshman team. So you
just had, you know, Coach Chandler brought about
nine freshmen on. So we have a split of about five,
nine, eight or nine and then the rest are
upperclassmen. And there's not too many seniors.
There's only about three or four seniors. And it's
the same, I mean, if there's anything to be said for
Tom Chandler, nothing changes with him. It's the
same. So we knew the routine. I mean, we knew what we
needed to do in the fall, what we needed to get ready
for. We practiced probably, we have six weeks of
practice. We probably practiced four weeks in the
old cow barn because it rained every single day in
the fall. I mean my sophomore year. I never thought
it would stop raining. So we had batting practice
in there. We dragged the cow down in there, the
horse. Now this is just across the tracks. No, this
was down next to the dairy, I mean the old creamery.
We called it the cow barn. It was a big barn that's
now an administration building of some kind.
That's where we used to practice inside that. It
was dirt floor. I mean that's really – Oh, are you
talking about the old –
right next to the library? Yeah. Oh, boy. Anyway,
we'll think of it later. They converted it. Yeah,
yeah. But they used to have dirt floor after they
had all the horses and cattle. The pavilion,
right. That's exactly what we called the cow barn.
So we'd go down there and practice, and we'd have to
clean up all the cow stuff and have baseball
practice. Because there was no place where we
could, we literally warmed up underneath the
stands, underneath the cow field. We loosened our
arms up and then we'd run over there to take some
grounders and do some, and we'd hit in a cage over
there. And that literally was fall ball, and then
of course It was getting harder for me because I was
falling behind in architecture, which I didn't
want to do. My structures classes were hurting me
and everything else. So in the spring, I decided
I'm going to give it one more try. And I just could
not keep up. And I almost failed out of school. That
spring, I went in and talked to Tom. And he says, I
understand. He says, you're making a wise
decision. You're welcome to stay in the dorm. I
have room for you. We can keep you there. He did
everything possible for me. I knew I couldn't stay
in the dorm. get an apartment, get a job, and so
that's what I did. I mean, that was a change in my
life. But you stayed with the team through the
spring semester. And we, you know, I think we won
half our games. I mean, it wasn't a great team. And
you were pitching. I was still a pitcher. Did you
all make any important trip that you remember with
the team that year? We saw Tom Chandler get thrown
out of three games in Tech at UT. We had a triple
header, we had to play two games on Saturday, or one
game on Friday and two games on Saturday. He got
thrown out of every game. It was a remarkable.
That's unusual. Yeah, he was not happy that we did.
And I think we were pretty close to tied for the
season with him. And he really thought we got home
town. And most people don't remember that field
where they had the big cliffs in center field and
everybody's They knew how to do it. We didn't. Of
course, it was a long weekend. It was a long ride
home, I can tell you. When you all went on an
out-of-town trip, how did you go? By bus. And the
whole team on the bus? The whole team on the bus.
What did you all do on that bus? Oh, listen to Tom
Chandler tell stories, mostly. The guys in the
back would play cards and talk, but I was young. I
enjoyed it. What stories about what? All the old
ball players. He could tell stories about my
brother and
some of the guys that played with my brother. He
says one time
they were going to a game and the bus broke down and
my brother and I can't remember his name, got out of
the bus. They couldn't wave anybody down to stop,
so they went up the highway a little bit and
pretended, when cars come in, they pretended they
were pulling a cable across the road. The car comes
to a screeching halt, went off the road in the bar
ditch, and of course, My brother and his buddy are
running back to the bus, and Tom Chandler's out
there, what's going on? What did you do? Did you
cause this person to? No, Coach, we didn't do it. We
didn't do it. But those are the kind of stories he
would tell about the previous players. And of
course, he'd pick one or two guys that were on the
team, and he'd start telling stories about the
older guys and what they did and how they pitched
the game. He was an excellent, excellent
storyteller, and that's really what I enjoyed on
that couple trips. So no mischief on the bus? No, I
mean, you know, a little bit of razzing. You know, I
had a couple of guys end up playing baseball in the
back end with a sock and stuff like that, but
nothing. Where did you all stay on the road?
Usually at a Ramada Inn or whatever. I can't even
remember the place in Austin. Was life pretty
tame? Oh, yeah. I mean, we'd stay up until he'd come
and not rap it on the doors. What did you all know the
rules really were about behavior? Well, we all
dressed right. That was one thing, coat and tie. We
didn't touch the room. We slept in the room and we
took a bath in the room. That was one of the rules. He
was not paying for any furniture or any TVs or
anything like that. And you really you took took
you know, he made you take pride in who you were your
Aggies and you know How did he how did he encourage
that? I think the older players and basically it
just just like, you know, I'd say just like in the
core But I mean the older guys say hey, this is what
you do, you know, I mean he didn't have to do
anything But you know the senior players you
usually would would say hey, you know, this is
what? We're going here, we're going there. They
basically lead the team. Did anybody say anything
about hair length and mustaches? Oh, absolutely.
There was none. There was none. You got a short
haircut, no mustaches, no face hair, none of that.
You shaved every day. You had a clean appearance.
Then at the end of that spring semester, you
decide, or did you decide that spring? I decided
that spring about halfway through. I knew I was not
going to make two classes. You know, I was not going
to pass them. So it was, I was skull pro that next
year. And you go, and you and Coach Chandler have a
good chat. Excellent chat. He understands. Did he
give you any advice? Yeah, he says I need to make
class more often. which he knew I was not. So he
says, if you just make your classes, you'll pass.
He says, but you don't make your classes, you're
not going to go through. So he says, you just got to
make your classes. So that was his advice. What did
mom and dad say? My dad was convinced I was not going
back to A&M. He thought he would have a permanent
employee there in El Paso. And I went and talked to
my counselor. Was that Priestmeyer or somebody
else? This was in the architecture department. I
remember who it was. I went in and I talked to them,
and they said, no, well, you basically flunked out
of school. I said, you've got three passing
classes and two playing classes, and the other
grades aren't going to keep you in architecture. I
said, well, this is why. I was playing baseball,
all the situation. They said, well, you need to
take this class again, another class at summer
school, take it. He says, we'll put you on
scholastic probation in the fall. And I came back,
and I got an apartment with a ballplayer who had
finished out his eligibility, needed somebody to
live with for a year. And
so I lived with him. My grades went up, I started
working, I got a job. With whom? Uh, D&B Oil
Company, Dick Broach. How did you locate that job?
Well, as I said, my brother was good friends with
the Daces, which I became good friends with. Oh,
okay. And they became good, they were good friends
with Dick and Bill Broach, who had two young boys,
and they needed kind of a permanent babysitter for
two wild Indian kids. And I was perfect, I was big,
they knew I would not put up with it. I babysat with
him several times, and actually Bill said, would
you like a job? He says, would you be interested in
working for us? And I said, sure. So I started
working with their filling stations for a while,
and then I started driving a tanker truck for them.
I was making good money driving a tanker truck.
About how many hours a week was that job? Probably
20, 25 is all. Do you remember what the pay was? I got
paid good money. I was around $10 an hour. because I
was driving that tanker. Oh, that was good money
then. Well, I was half of what you have to pay
somebody else. Yeah, but still. He was getting a
good deal. No, I made, I was doing, I was okay. I
didn't need any money from my dad for spending, so.
You still didn't have a car? I finally got a car. My
junior year I got a car. In fact, my father-in-law
financed the car, so I was able to afford it. But you
were not yet married? I was not yet married to my
future father-in-law. He thought I needed a car.
And that young lady had stayed with you and she had
put up with the – Oh, yeah. She stuck around. All
right. And so that junior year, how was it
different from the first two years? I was much more
stable. I was much more comfortable in the, you
know, I was much more comfortable in an apartment.
I knew I didn't have the baseball over my head. I
didn't have to go work out. The job was easier. I
worked all my life, so the job was easier to handle
than baseball. And I was getting more
comfortable. Larry Priesmeier and I had become
pretty good friends, so I was much more
comfortable, and he really guided me in what I
needed to do to get out of college, and that's what
his purpose was. Now, when you got that car, you
didn't play around much more. No, I went to work and
went home, went to school. I mean, that's
literally, I went to Austin a couple times. I
couldn't, you know, you really, I don't
say you couldn't afford to, but I enjoyed what I was
doing. We'd go to the lake, go to Somerville on the
weekends with friends and go to the Lakeview Club
once or twice a week. I mean, I was happy with that.
It was very simple as far as Did you ever go to one of
the drinking parties at the clay pits? Never did. I
keep looking. Nobody that I know of. Claims. No,
no. Yeah, I went, but they don't remember exactly
where it was. Some were south and west.
During that time, while you were an
undergraduate, were you aware of any secret
fraternities at Texas A&M? None. Didn't know a
thing. Let's see, did you ever have, did you ever go
to any of the big fancy dances on campus? Never did.
Never had a date, I mean on campus. The dates were
always in Austin. You didn't have any Tessie
dates? No. Student indulgences, alcohol, what
kind of alcohol? Just beer. What was the favorite
brands? Well, we used to drink Texas pride because
it was the cheapest let alone star and then of
course when I was when somebody else is buying I
have a scotch, but usually it's you know, when you
buy your own you have just a beer and What were
people smoking? Well with you know, that was when
marijuana really got popular I mean and I never did
it can actually say I never tried it But the
architecture department, it was very popular.
Now they were the liberals and they, you know,
they- Did they buy it in Brazos County or did they
bring it- They brought it with them usually. From
Houston- From their homes, you know, where they
knew they could get it. There was quite a few of the
architecture students back then that smoked. Was
there any, did you all even know about anything
like heroin or anything like that in the early 70s?
I did because I came from El Paso and in an
environment of being in the border it was very easy
to get access. A lot of my friends accessed all that
stuff. I saw several of them die. And that's why I
like College Station and Bryan so well is I never
saw any of that. I never felt it around like I did in
El Paso. So I guess that's one of the things that
attracted me to like it so much. Were you aware that
there were any dealers of any illegals? No, not at
all. I don't think they would have lasted a day or
two. In your student days, could whiskey be bought
legally in Brazos County? I think so. I thought it
could be. I can't remember buying beer and never
being carded, because it was pretty much, I think
it was 18 and 0, because they passed that law. So I
don't remember ever having a problem buying
anything really to drink. Did you ever hear
anybody talk about going to the chicken ranch? Oh,
yeah. In LaGrange? Oh, yeah. Really? What did they
say about the chicken ranch? Well, my roommate
used to go there probably once a month, the old
ballpark. And
he'd get all excited because he had his money saved
up and he could go over there. And I'd catch him the
next morning and go, oh, I met this new girl. It was
just, you know, he was funny. He was quite a
character. Did the stories you heard from him,
were they similar to the... Oh, the Alto, yeah. I
mean, half the baseball team regularly went over
there. So, yeah, and of course... There were some
guys from Austin that, of course, the people from
Austin didn't go to LaGrange. They went to Seeley.
LaGrange was for the Aggies. But that's kind of the
stories we heard. And if on a Saturday night, if you
and a group of friends were going to have a good
time, you went out to the Lakeview Club. Lakeview
Club, mostly. And at Northgate, was there
anything else, North or Southgate? None. How
often did you go to Houston? Well, see, that was the
difference, I think, in school now and school
then. I think everybody abandoned that campus and
went to football games. Nobody went to basketball
games unless they were, you know, student
athletes. So most of the people went to Houston or
Dallas. In Dallas, everybody had to become a
member of a club, you know, to drink. So, you know,
that was the, we'd go up there and join a club so we
can go in and have dinner and drink. But I think most
of the drinking was done back at home for most of the
students in the places they usually went to. And I
went to, you know, whoever took me, I went to their
local, you know, we're going to go to this club and
dance and stuff. In terms of student body, one of
the items that I missed, integration, how were
blacks treated?
The ones I knew were athletes. You know, everybody
was kind of treated equally. Otherwise, I didn't,
I mean, in the architecture department, there may
have been one or two. Everybody just kind of
treated them the same. I know there was some racist
stuff going on at the time, some, you know, what are
they doing here, you know, that kind of stuff. But
it really, it was so minor and so limited that it was
just an individual or two that created that kind of
thing. Did you go off campus much to shop, to buy
clothes or anything else? Oh, yeah. I used to go, I
mean, my favorite was to go downtown Bryan. You
know, that place was really pretty popular and we
used to go down there to the shops and stores.
Where'd you go to the movie? Well, the movie
theater right there at Northgate was the campus.
And, of course, every Saturday night they had the
stag films that we used to go to. And how did Aggies
behave during campus theater movies? Oh, it was a
riot. I mean, every remark that could be made was
made. I mean, you couldn't insult anybody. Nobody
brought a date. I mean, you're all just pretty much
there. entertaining on Thursday night or
Wednesday night when they come out with the new
movie. I mean, everybody was just there to raise
hell, so. It was just the great remarks. And your
junior and senior years you, again, didn't go home
except at the holiday time. Right. Do you remember
any national or international event during your
A&M years where you, it so startled you, you
remember where you were when you heard the news?
Nothing like that? Nothing like that. It was, you
know, the Vietnam War was gone. It was startling
everybody. Nothing like September 11? Nothing
like that. All right. Vietnam. How much did you and
your buddies talk about that? A lot, because a lot
of them were gone. I mean, my number was, I was the
last year that they allowed college deferments,
and my number was 76. So, you know, if I didn't stay
in school, I was going to be gone. And, of course,
all the guys in the Corps, we talked to them, and,
you know, they're going to be, they knew they were
going to be going if the thing didn't come to an end
real quick. So it was some consternation there. I
mean everybody was. What did you and your civilian
student friends think about the corps? I
don't know. Most of them admired them. Most of them
said, hey, I couldn't do that. You know, most of
them were, you know, these guys are hardcore.
Again, I'm from El Paso. You have Fort Bliss. I live
two blocks from Fort Bliss. I was around military
every day, all day. They were my school, you know.
So it wasn't that much different other than, for
me, I don't think I could have handled the
discipline. I was too undisciplined and wasn't
regimented. I mean, I probably should have done
it. It would have probably been better for me to get
me more organized. The guys I knew You know, they
loved it. They thought it was, you know, and they,
you know, like I said, they'd come over to us to
complain, but they always went back. And you
didn't, you and your buddies didn't necessarily
look down on them. It was just different than. Oh,
not at all. We used to go watch them march. We used
to, you know, I mean, there was a lot of, I mean,
there was, I don't know, five or six thousand in the
Corps, and more than that, really eight, I think it
was, when I was in my freshman year. And we'd go over
to, at the MSC, you know the, what's that field, I
can't think of it. The drill field. The drill
field. Simpson. Simpson. And we'd all watch them
march and we thought, man, that's, you know,
that's a good bull. I mean, we really did. We
enjoyed it. We supported it. You know, we were
there, so. Did you go to Aggie Muster while you were
a student? Never went to Aggie Muster. But you went
to, did you go to Yale practice? Yeah, I went to Yale
practice. Every year, every game. And you went to
football games. Actually, I worked, the first two
years I was playing baseball, I went to the
football games, and then I got a job with Coke, so I
was down at the wood pasture, or whatever his name
is. You know, we'd service all the Coke machines
and everything else. So I was working the football
and the basketball games. I worked all of them.
What is it that pulls A&M people together? What
builds that spirit, that feeling? I think we're
all there for one purpose, to get that degree from
Texas A&M. I know I was there for that reason. I
admired my best friend's dad for what he had. I
never saw that from any other you know, older
people had college degrees. They were never, let
me show you this stuff about A&M. Let me show you, I
mean, you're always, you know, I don't want to say
indoctrinated, but you're always in awe of how
proud they were of the degree. And I think, I think
the old Army, you know, when everybody was in the
Corps and had that camaraderie, I think it was, it
was that that started it. And I think now it's gone,
you know, past that, like for me, I mean, Look at the
picture of my son. He's two years old. He's got
boots on. He's got Texas Aggies. He applied to one
school. And I think that's what keeps people going
back is because you don't look at anything else.
You want that for your son. I mean, that's why I
think it is. It's such a family. Like as I look on
your wall, I see things that I think are very
normal. Yeah, see, Olsen Field, as a sidebar, if
Tom was alive today, he'd tell you this. He told
this to my son and several people. That was my
fourth year architecture project. Really? Olsen
Field. Oh, talk about that. I got with Coach
Chandler. I said, Coach, I got a project. I need to
do a project for my fourth year. And I said, I want to
do a new baseball stadium for A&M. He said, we need a
new stadium. Oh, man. He lit up. He brought in two
grass experts. He brought in people from the
Astros. And Larry Priestmeyer helped me do this.
And like I said, I was a builder. So we did
schematics. We did a four by four model with lights
and all the baseball field. I mean, it was
literally, I wish I had my pictures of it. I've lost
them in the move. That's what it was. that design
was almost identical to what they picked. And we
had it over a skylight, you know, had glass over it,
and we, I presented it to my class and Dean Romnick
and everything else, and of course. Are you the one
that came up with the idea that your project would
be a baseball stadium? Mm-hmm. Okay. That's what I
wanted to do. I mean, I wanted to do it for Coach
Chandler. Now, where did you propose that it be
located? Exactly where it's located. Okay. I
mean, it wasn't my idea. It was Tom's idea. He said,
we need to put that thing, we need to start on the
other side. We want the baseball field on the other
side of those railroad tracks. And we want it to
stand out. We want it to be, you know, the, you know,
and before it was just the old, there used to be the
old riding stables was where that thing was. So we
presented it to our class in the architecture
department and got an A on it. And Tom helped a lot. I
mean, he really, his input was on that field. He
said, we need this and we need that. We need these
things over here. So it was a complete facility,
batting cages and pitching things. And then we
presented it to the Letterman's Association. We
took it to the Letterman's Association. Tom said,
you know, this is what we're presenting to you. Oh,
they loved it. So let's put it in the lounge and
let's sit it up there for the spring. And so we put
that thing in the Letterman's Lounge. It stayed
there until it got gray, I think, green fabric got
gray for the field. And from what Tom tells me,
Olsen walked in after one of the football games or
something and said, what's this? So this is the
new, this is our idea of maybe doing a new football
stadium, or a new baseball stadium. He says, well,
what's it going to cost? And I had a complete bill,
how much it was going to cost to build, and I had all
the estimates and everything. He says, well, I'll
put up half if you put up half. Do you remember what
the number was at your estimate? I can't even
remember back then. It was, you know, not over
three or four million. It was not in the numbers
that it came in at, but it was significantly later
that they really built it. Right, and so the year
you're designing it is 70? 72.
And Mr. Olson indicates that he will make a big
contribution about when? A few years later,
because that thing stayed in there a couple of
years. Okay. So it was a couple of years later when
he came in. And the only condition, he said,
there's only one condition, if you know the story,
that I get to park my motorhome. We're going to put
motorhome slots over here, and I'm parking my
motorhome right there for the football games.
That was the condition of part of the baseball
stadium. Where was Mr. Olson living then, do you
know? In Houston. In Houston, okay. He had not yet
moved up to? No. His house just sold. Do you
remember where he lived due south of the campus?
Well, he lived about two blocks due south of the
campus. He went straight out by the President's
house and kept going.